these pyramids the tombs of the
so-called black Pharaohs of the Nubian
kingdom of cush they to harness the
Niles riches were at one time powerful
enough to rule their Egyptian neighbors
a thousand kilometres to the north
[Music]
but unlike the Egyptians little is known
about their mysterious culture and
language
a little way upstream from those
enigmatic pyramids the Nile story
becomes more complicated
[Music]
now there are two rivers the Blue Nile
and the White Nile here they meet and
merge in what Arab poets call the
longest kiss in history
the clearly different colors of the blue
and white Nile suggest different
characters and origins
this meeting of the waters is the site
of another great human settlement
Khartoum
[Music]
Khartoum is the capital of Sudan a
country of nearly 600 tribes and over a
hundred languages centuries old Khartoum
remains to this day one of the most
important crossroads in the African
landscape
the Nile has seen Kushites Christians
and Arabs each rule here in their time
but Islam has emerged as the dominant
voice in modern Khartoum every Friday
Islamic mystics still gather to affirm
their beliefs a crowd
urges them to spin they enter a state of
trance believing in this way that they
can span the divide between heaven and
earth these are the legendary whirling
dervishes
[Music]